readme.md, before:

# Mikrotik Netinstall in a Container

## Overview
This container is designed to run on alternate platforms (eg. ARM/ARM64) and to facilitate a simple netinstall experience

## Enviroment Variables
| Name | Default | Description |
|------|---------|-------------|
| NETINSTALL_ADDR | 192.168.88.1 | Client IP Address for Netinstall to assign |
| NETINSTALL_RESET | `<null>` | Add `-r` to Netinstall arguments (https://help.mikrotik.com/docs/display/ROS/Netinstall#Netinstall-InstructionsforLinux)
| NETINSTALL_ARCH | mipsbe | CPU Architecture to use when selecting npk (Optional) |
| LOAD_VERSION | `<null>` | RouterOS version to use when selecting npk (Optional) |
| NETINSTALL_NPK | `routeros-${NETINSTALL_ARCH}-${LOAD_VERSION}.npk"` | NPK for Netinstall to use |

*Note:* The `-k` and `-s` netinstall arguments are not implemented yet

## Usage on RouterOS v7
With the implementation of containers in ROSv7, we can now enjoy a netinstall experience from another Mikrotik

Testing has been completed with a RB4011 (v7.6b8) running the container to flash a RB2011

### Steps
The below steps will create a container linking to `ether5`, and set netinstall to load the `routeros-mipsbe-6.48.6.npk` NPK file

1. Enable containers and install package (refer wiki)
2. Create folder `images` under `disk1`
3. Upload npk files to images folder
4. Create veth interface 
    ```
    /interface veth add address=192.168.88.6/24 gateway=192.168.88.1 name=veth1
    ```
5. Create bridge
    ```
    /interface bridge add name=dockers
    ```
6. Add veth and physical port to bridge
    ```
    /interface bridge port add bridge=dockers interface=veth1
    /interface bridge port add bridge=dockers interface=ether5
    ```
7. Create mount to contain npk files
    ```
    /container mounts add dst=/app/images name=images src=/disk1/images
    ```
8. Create enviroment set, and specify npk file to use
    ```
    /container envs add key=NETINSTALL_NPK name=NETINSTALL value=routeros-mipsbe-6.48.6.npk
    ```
9. Create container
    ```
    /container add remote-image=semaja2/mikrotik-netinstall:latest envlist=NETINSTALL interface=veth1 logging=yes mounts=images workdir=/app
    ```

## Usage with Podman
>TODO

## Usage with Docker
Due to limitations with Docker, the container can only work via the `--network=host` network parameter, as such this is only useful on Linux as this driver is not available for Windows/MacOS
 > The host networking driver only works on Linux hosts, and is not supported on Docker Desktop for Mac, Docker Desktop for Windows, or Docker EE for Windows Server.

>TODO

Commit message:

Rebuild to include extra parameters
New entrypoint.sh allows defining additional packages to install alongside RouterOS, no breaking changes as old environment variable will still be accepted and disable new logic

readme.md, after:

# Mikrotik Netinstall in a Container

## Overview
This container is designed to run on alternate platforms (eg. ARM/ARM64) and to facilitate a simple netinstall experience

## Enviroment Variables
| Name | Default | Description |
|------|---------|-------------|
| NETINSTALL_ADDR | 192.168.88.1 | Client IP Address for Netinstall to assign |
| NETINSTALL_ARGS | `<null>` | Allows specifying additional arguments such as '-r' to reset config (https://help.mikrotik.com/docs/display/ROS/Netinstall#Netinstall-InstructionsforLinux)
| NETINSTALL_ARCH | arm64 | CPU Architecture to use when selecting npk |
| NETINSTALL_VER | `7.14.1` | RouterOS version to use when selecting npk |
| NETINSTALL_PKGS | `routeros` | Packages to install seperated by space (eg. routeros container) Do NOT include anything but the package name |

## Usage on RouterOS v7
With the implementation of containers in ROSv7, we can now enjoy a netinstall experience from another Mikrotik

Testing has been completed with a RB4011 (v7.6b8) running the container to flash a RB2011

### Steps
The below steps will create a container linking to `ether5`, and set netinstall to perform a full reset/recovery of RouterOS v7.14.1 for arm64 with the container package 

1. Enable containers and install package (refer wiki)
2. Create folder `images` under `disk1`
3. Upload npk files to images folder
4. Create veth interface 
    ```
    /interface veth add address=192.168.88.6/24 gateway=192.168.88.1 name=veth1
    ```
5. Create bridge
    ```
    /interface bridge add name=dockers
    ```
6. Add veth and physical port to bridge
    ```
    /interface bridge port add bridge=dockers interface=veth1
    /interface bridge port add bridge=dockers interface=ether5
    ```
7. Create mount to contain npk files
    ```
    /container mounts add dst=/app/images name=images src=/disk1/images
    ```
8. Create enviroment set, and specify npk file to use
    ```
    /container envs add key=NETINSTALL_ARCH name=NETINSTALL value=arm64
    /container envs add key=NETINSTALL_VER name=NETINSTALL value=7.14.1
    /container envs add key=NETINSTALL_PKGS name=NETINSTALL value="routeros container"
    /container envs add key=NETINSTALL_ARGS name=NETINSTALL value="-r -b"
    ```
9. Create container
    ```
    /container add remote-image=semaja2/mikrotik-netinstall:latest envlist=NETINSTALL interface=veth1 logging=yes mounts=images workdir=/app
    ```

## Usage with Podman
>TODO
#### Allow containers to bind to lower ports
```bash
sudo sh -c "echo 0 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_unprivileged_port_start"
```


## Usage with Docker
Due to limitations with Docker, the container can only work via the `--network=host` network parameter, as such this is only useful on Linux as this driver is not available for Windows/MacOS
 > The host networking driver only works on Linux hosts, and is not supported on Docker Desktop for Mac, Docker Desktop for Windows, or Docker EE for Windows Server.

>TODO
